All right.
Perfect.
So now we are displaying some dynamic data in our home page.
We have our polls complete almost there.
We have the image titled alter the time contacting all that great stuff we have the categories right
now let's jump into the sidebar and let's do some stuff here.
Let's build our costumes search engine.
Let's go to the categories after that and let's go to the widget.
We're going to display some categories here too.
So just for you to know that so let's go ahead and bill that we need to go to a database to actually
find out when the user types something here we need to search the database to see if we can find some
of the content they're looking for.
Right.
So if they type here.
Hello we go to the database.
Get this field in the database and say you know what database do you have this field somewhere.
And then if we do then we display it.
Right.
So it is like I have two or three parts or because there are some steps that we need to follow.
And I'm afraid some of the steps could be too long if I put it in one lecture.
So it's not really hard is actually easy it just takes a little bit of time to do.
So what we want to do is go to the sidebar and here the sidebar we need to find the blog search.
Well make sure that you find that separate a little bit as you can see there.
Perfect.
We need a form to submit some post data so that way to the field to that to our database.
All right so let's create a form right under here and it's called this form
and it's put it right below.
Is there a here do a little comment here and just see form search form.
All right just so that we know that's the end and the actual And I'll leave it that way.
And I'm just going to say method just for you information for live action like this.
We're not submitted anywhere else we just submitted to the same page.
So the polls here will be the matter with the post.
We need to send some information via these buttons here.
So we need that name actually you there.
And I'm just going to name it submit.
Make sure that you change it.
But there are two types of Mitt.
Also if I work in the mind is a little bit of the way is in order.
We go and this textfield here we need to also for a little review there and then to make sure it is
search because we are going to be using this information.
It is getting too big and I don't like the way it looks when it gets to be this way.
But I want you to keep seeing this anyway.
So now that we have this form here we need to catch the data somewhere and we're going to catch it real
quick just to show you.
Well just to find out if it's working.
Right.
So let's catch them right here.
Well let's not forget a BHP tax.
Actually we're not catching it via get we catching the post Super global ph taxing here let's take this
out from here and put it down here.
All right.
Perfect.
I just click on press on tabel my key word will do that for me real quick.
All right so let's see if that works out.
We got to get at.
But I'll show you in a minute.
So we get his error here because he's on the fine is actually trying to do something but right now he's
not going to do anything anyway because we now echoing.
So let's make sure we echo that.
And if we do this and that we get some of this field here halo display here as you can see.
So he's working.
We are submitting data there.
Perfect.
So now that we know he's working less actually if we go ahead and do this here and put our cursor here
and click on Enter this is we've got these arrow here we avoid that by actually checking for this first
check in for that search or for submission.
So let's do that.
So let's do that with an if statement.
And let's just use some.
Let's use something like the set function
and let's check for each submission false statement.
Right.
And then if we find that submission then we want to also search for this and actually assign it to a
variable the variable that we will be using is called search.
All right so now and this just echo the whole thing out just to check it out by now you see and we don't
get that arrow when we click enter on top here.
But if I type something here and I click on the search we see that we get something out of there.
Perfect.
All right so we know that's working now.
So what do we want to do.
Well when people click on submit what we've said that we want to search our database right so that's
exactly what we need to do right now.
We need to search our database to find some information about what the user wants to find.
I want to display some information to the user so we have a forum here all set up.
And I was thinking about making this thing and then another lecture sensed this already took a little
bit of time.
So let's leave it for another lecture on the next lecture.
I will show you how to go inside the database and do the search for whatever the user types in in our
search engine and find that information displayed to the user right.
So that's why we want to do.
We also want to validate if you know no information comes out of the database.
So I'm going to show you that in their collection just to make our lectures a little shorter.
That way you can do all the things take a break and come back.
Right.
So anyway thank you so much and I'll see your next lecture.
Take care.